
# CNN for Twitter Sentiment

This package works on Linux and OS X. 

## Files

`data_helpers.py` -- some helper functions for data processsing.

`text_cnn.py` -- `TextCNN` class that defines the network structure.

`train.py` -- the training procedure.

`eval.py` -- the test procedure, this and the above files are modified from [Denny Britz's repo](https://github.com/dennybritz/cnn-text-classification-tf).

`train.sh` -- example script for running `train.py`.

`eval.sh` -- example script for running `eval.py`.

`word2vec/word2vec_optimized.py` -- Python script for training a word embedding model, `word2vec`, taken from [TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/models/embedding/word2vec_optimized.py).

`word2vec/vocab.txt` -- vocabulary file contains all the words recognizable by the `word2vec` model, generated by `word2vec/word2vec_optimized.py`. 

`word2vec/model.zip` & `word2vec/model.z01` -- compressed files of a pretrained `word2vec` model, the model file is generated by `word2vec/word2vec_optimized.py`.

`word2vec/text8.zip` -- compressed file of the training data for `word2vec` model, downloaded [here](http://mattmahoney.net/dc/text8.zip).

`word2vec/questions-words.txt` -- test data for `word2vec` model, downloaded [here](https://word2vec.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/questions-words.txt).

## Setup

1. Install TensorFlow following the [official tutorial](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/master/get_started/os_setup.html).

2. Install NLTK using `easy_install` or `pip`.

3. If use the pretrained `word2vec` model, decompress the zip file using the following command:

   ```bash
   zip -FF model.zip --out model-full.zip; unzip model-full.zip
   ```

4. The above command produces the `model.ckpt-2265405` file, a pretrained `word2vec` model. `2265405` is the number of steps used in training the model. 


## Train Word Embedding Model

1. The word embedding model `word2vec` is needed by the CNN model, so it needs to be pretrained if necessary.

2. To train a `word2vec` model, use the following commands:
   
   ```bash
   cd word2vec; unzip text8.zip
   python word2vec_optimized.py \
   --train_data=text8 \
   --eval_data=questions-words.txt \
   --save_path=.
   ```

3. After a long time of training, a model file named `model.ckpt-XXXXXXX` (`XXXXXXX` is a number) and vocabulary file `vocab.txt`, among others, will be generated. These two files are needed by the CNN model. 

## Train CNN Model

1. The following descriptions assumes the pretrained `word2vec` model is used. If it is retrained, replace `model.ckpt-2265405` with the new file name.

2. `train.py` defines the training procedure. To get help info on the parameters, use the following command:

   ```bash
   python train.py --help
   ```

3. To train a model with the default parameters, use `train.sh` or the following command:

   ```bash
   python train.py \
   --pos_file=../sentiment140/train.pos.txt \
   --neg_file=../sentiment140/train.neg.txt \
   --word2vec_file=./word2vec/model.ckpt-2265405 \
   --vocab_file=./word2vec/vocab.txt \
   --checkpoint_dir=./checkpoints
   ```

## Test CNN Model

1. `eval.py` defines the test procedure. To get help info on the parameters, use the following command:

   ```bash
   python eval.py --help
   ```

2. To test a model with the default parameters, use `eval.sh` or the following command:

   ```bash
   python eval.py \
   --pos_file=../sentiment140/test.pos.txt \
   --neg_file=../sentiment140/test.neg.txt \
   --vocab_file=./word2vec/vocab.txt \
   --checkpoint_dir=./checkpoints
   ```
